blog post falcosidekick 2.29.0 (#1334)
falcosecurity/falco-website: content/en/blog/falcosidekick-2-29-0/index.md

---
title: Falcosidekick 2.29.0
linktitle: Falcosidekick 2.29.0
author: Thomas Labarussias
date: 2024-07-02
slug: falcosidekick-2-29-0
images:
  - /blog/falcosidekick-2-29-0/images/falcosidekick-featured.png
tags: ["Falcosidekick","Release"]
---

> Almost 1 year without a release of Falcosidekick, but the 2.29.0 is finally here. Thanks to all contributors for their patience, you made amazing contributions and we're happy to finally have them available for all users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Almost 1 year without a release of Falcosidekick, but the 2.29.0 release is finally here. Thanks to all contributors for their patience, you made amazing contributions and we're happy to finally have them available for all users.
```

> Like for every releases, a small recap of the adoption. Falcosidekick continues to be adopted, even if the rate is not as high as before, but we're sure it will explode once again with this new fresh verson.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like for every releases, a small recap about its adoption. Falcosidekick continues to be adopted, even if the rate is not as high as before, but we're sure it will explode once again with this new fresh version.
```

![](images/falcosidekick-docker-pulls.png)

Once more, Falcosidekick expands Falco's integrability with a lot of new outputs. That and the introduction of many new features has been possible thanks to the hard work of the community. You can find a comprehensive list of these in the [changelog](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcosidekick/releases/tag/2.29.0).

## New outputs

More and more systems are integrated as outputs in Falcosidekick, more and more often directly by the companies themselves and not their end users. It shows Falco and Falcosidekick are seen as major components in the security fields, and trusted as de facto standards.

### Dynatrace

Mario Kahlhofer, aka [@blu3r4y](https://github.com/@blu3r4y), from Dynatrace, integrated the well known observability and security platform he works for. You can even read his [blog post about](https://www.dynatrace.com/news/blog/ttp-based-threat-hunting-solves-alert-noise/), to discover how to correlate the Falco events with their APM agent events.

![](images/dynatrace.png)

### Sumologic

> Carlo Mencarelli, aka [àmencarellic](https://github.com/mencarellic), did the exporter of the Falco events to [Sumologic](https://www.sumologic.com/), the SaaS platform for your logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Carlo Mencarelli, aka [mencarellic](https://github.com/mencarellic), did the exporter of the Falco events to [Sumologic](https://www.sumologic.com/), the SaaS platform for your logs.
```

![](images/sumologic.png)

### OTLP Traces

It started as an internal hackaton at [Grafana Labs](https://grafana.com/) and became a real integration thanks to JuanJo Ciarlante ([@jjo](https://github.com/jjo)). You can now export the Falco event as traces, to have an automatic correlation between the detected events.

> [!WARNING]
 It works only for the syscall related events.

![](images/otlp-traces.png)

### Quickwit

After a demo of Falco at a CNCF Meetup, the [Quickwit](https://quickwit.io/) team wanted to add their product as a new output for Falcosidekick, and they did it. You can now easily index your Falco events in their search engine thanks to the work of Idriss Neumann ([@idrissneumann](https://github.com/idrissneumann)).

![](images/quickwit.png)

### Falco Talon

> New born in the Falco ecosystem, trying to complete the last missing piece: the reaction. You can now forward the Falco events to [Falco Talon](https//docs.falco-talon.org), a tailor made no-code response engine for Falco. The project is still an alpha, but move on quickly. Stay tuned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New born in the Falco ecosystem, trying to complete the last missing piece: the reaction. You can now forward the Falco events to [Falco Talon](https//docs.falco-talon.org), a tailor made no-code response engine for Falco. The project is still an alpha, but moves quickly. Stay tuned.
```

```

By removing the `<timestamp>` and `<priority>`, you get:
```
Detected ptrace PTRACE_ATTACH attempt (proc_pcmdline=%proc.pcmdline evt_type=%evt.type user=%user.name user_uid=%user.uid user_loginuid=%user.loginuid process=%proc.name proc_exepath=%proc.exepath parent=%proc.pname command=%proc.cmdline terminal=%proc.tty exe_flags=%evt.arg.flags %container.info)
```

{{% pageinfo color="info" %}}
If you use the settings `customFields` and `templatedFields` of Falcosidekick to inject new elements in the `output_fields`, it's also possible to have them in the `output` with the tokens `<custom_fields>` and `<templated_fields>`.
{{% /pageinfo %}}

### Alternative endpoints for AWS S3

Some projects like [Minio](https://min.io/) are S3-compliant, you can now use them as target for the `AWS S3` output by changing the endpoint to use. Thanks to  [@gysel](https://github.com/gysel) for this feature.

### Split of the docs

> The main README of the project became really huge over the years, with all those available outputs. We did a big refacto and you can now find one file per output, with more details about the configuration, the default values and some tips. The docs are [there](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcosidekick/tree/master/docs/outputs), and any help is welcome to make them even better.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main README of the project became really huge over the years, with all those available outputs. We did a big refactor and you can now find one file per output, with more details about the configuration, the default values and some tips. The docs are [here](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcosidekick/tree/master/docs/outputs), and any help is welcome to make them even better.
```
